litex/README-CircuitPython-Example.md, before:

# OrangeCrab DDR3 SoC CircuitPython demo

``` Currently under-development ``` 

> Note there is currently a potential Yosys bug that effects building LiteX SoCs. Please use an earlier build of yosys (Before Jul 1st). You can also find prebuilt binaries on the prebuilt branch: https://github.com/gregdavill/OrangeCrab-examples/blob/prebuilt/litex


## Build Instructions
> Add \``--revision 0.1`\` argument when running this to build for the r0.1 board
```console
$ python3 SoC-CircuitPython.py
 ```

If this is the first time running this command it will pull in submodules of LiteX and all the dependancies requiled to build. Then this will invoke LiteX/Migen to generate verilog and fed it to yosys/nextpnr to generate a bitstream for the ECP5.

When the synthesis is complete you will find the gateware to be loaded at `"build/orangecrab/gateware/orangecrab.bit"`

## Compile CircuitPython
```console
$ git clone https://github.com/gregdavill/circuitpython.git -b orangecrab
$ cd circuitpython 
$ git submodule update --init --recursive
$ cd ports/litex
$ make BOARD=orangecrab
```

## Combine SoC and Circuit Python firmware and flash
Copy `circuitpython/ports/litex/build-orangecrab/firmware.bin` into this directory, and use this command to create a combined binary.
This step creates a single binary that will fit our code at `0x80000`, and CircuitPython riscv code at `0x100000` in FLASH after we've loaded it through the DFU bootloader.
 ```console
$ python combine.py
$ dfu-util -D combine.dfu
 ```

## CircuitPython is now running!

If you run dmesg, you shloud see a new ttyACM0 attached, as well as a Mass storage device
```console
$ dmesg
[3660.128564] usb 1-1: new full-speed USB device number 85 using xhci_hcd
[3660.303067] usb 1-1: New USB device found, idVendor=1209, idProduct=5bf0
[3660.303076] usb 1-1: New USB device strings: Mfr=2, Product=3, SerialNumber=1
[3660.303081] usb 1-1: Product: OrangeCrab
[3660.303086] usb 1-1: Manufacturer: GsD
[3660.303090] usb 1-1: SerialNumber: 4E96033DB132B362
[3660.308700] cdc_acm 1-1:1.0: ttyACM0: USB ACM device
[3660.316766] usb-storage 1-1:1.2: USB Mass Storage device detected
[3660.317336] scsi host4: usb-storage 1-1:1.2
[3660.332957] input: GsD OrangeCrab as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb1/1-1/1-1:1.3/0003:1209:5BF0.008D/input/input186
[3660.393971] hid-generic 0003:1209:5BF0.008D: input,hidraw5: USB HID v1.11 Keyboard [GsD OrangeCrab] on usb-0000:00:14.0-1/input3
[3661.337027] scsi host4: scsi scan: INQUIRY result too short (5), using 36
[3661.337041] scsi 4:0:0:0: Direct-Access     GsD      OrangeCrab       1.0  PQ: 0 ANSI: 2
[3661.338035] sd 4:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg2 type 0
[3661.345245] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] 16385 512-byte logical blocks: (8.39 MB/8.00 MiB)
[3661.349456] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Write Protect is off
[3661.349470] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Mode Sense: 03 00 00 00
[3661.353458] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] No Caching mode page found
[3661.353471] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Assuming drive cache: write through
[3661.418044]  sdc: sdc1
[3661.444235] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Attached SCSI removable disk
```

Connecting to the ttyACM0 device you should see the following
```console
$ screen /dev/ttyACM0
Auto-reload is on. Simply save files over USB to run them or enter REPL to disable.

Press any key to enter the REPL. Use CTRL-D to reload.
Adafruit CircuitPython 5.2.0-24-gc88db8a4e-dirty on 2020-07-11; OrangeCrab with VexRiscv
>>> 
```

Commit message:

litex: add toolchain setup instructions

litex/README-CircuitPython-Example.md, after:

# OrangeCrab DDR3 SoC CircuitPython demo

``` Currently under-development ``` 

> Note there is currently a potential Yosys bug that effects building LiteX SoCs. Please use an earlier build of yosys (Before Jul 1st). You can also find prebuilt binaries on the prebuilt branch: https://github.com/gregdavill/OrangeCrab-examples/blob/prebuilt/litex


## Setup Instructions
Before building the LiteX SoC, you must install a suitable toolchain, for example GCC.
Download a package from [sifive.com/software](https://www.sifive.com/software), extract it, and add it to your path.
The example below will install GCC v8.3.0 on an Ubuntu system.

```console
$ curl -LO "https://static.dev.sifive.com/dev-tools/riscv64-unknown-elf-gcc-8.3.0-2020.04.0-x86_64-linux-ubuntu14.tar.gz"
$ tar -xvf riscv64-unknown-elf-gcc-8.3.0-2020.04.0-x86_64-linux-ubuntu14.tar.gz
$ export PATH="$(readlink -f ./riscv64-unknown-elf-gcc-8.3.0-2020.04.0-x86_64-linux-ubuntu14/bin):${PATH}"
$ riscv64-unknown-elf-gcc -v
```

It is also necessary to install the `pythondata-software-compiler_rt` python package, as follows:

```console
$ pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/litex-hub/pythondata-software-compiler_rt.git
```

## Build Instructions
> Add \``--revision 0.1`\` argument when running this to build for the r0.1 board
```console
$ python3 SoC-CircuitPython.py
 ```

If this is the first time running this command it will pull in submodules of LiteX and all the dependancies requiled to build. Then this will invoke LiteX/Migen to generate verilog and fed it to yosys/nextpnr to generate a bitstream for the ECP5.

When the synthesis is complete you will find the gateware to be loaded at `"build/orangecrab/gateware/orangecrab.bit"`

## Compile CircuitPython
```console
$ git clone https://github.com/gregdavill/circuitpython.git -b orangecrab
$ cd circuitpython 
$ git submodule update --init --recursive
$ cd ports/litex
$ make BOARD=orangecrab
```

## Combine SoC and Circuit Python firmware and flash
Copy `circuitpython/ports/litex/build-orangecrab/firmware.bin` into this directory, and use this command to create a combined binary.
This step creates a single binary that will fit our code at `0x80000`, and CircuitPython riscv code at `0x100000` in FLASH after we've loaded it through the DFU bootloader.
 ```console
$ python combine.py
$ dfu-util -D combine.dfu
 ```

## CircuitPython is now running!

If you run dmesg, you shloud see a new ttyACM0 attached, as well as a Mass storage device
```console
$ dmesg
[3660.128564] usb 1-1: new full-speed USB device number 85 using xhci_hcd
[3660.303067] usb 1-1: New USB device found, idVendor=1209, idProduct=5bf0
[3660.303076] usb 1-1: New USB device strings: Mfr=2, Product=3, SerialNumber=1
[3660.303081] usb 1-1: Product: OrangeCrab
[3660.303086] usb 1-1: Manufacturer: GsD
[3660.303090] usb 1-1: SerialNumber: 4E96033DB132B362
[3660.308700] cdc_acm 1-1:1.0: ttyACM0: USB ACM device
[3660.316766] usb-storage 1-1:1.2: USB Mass Storage device detected
[3660.317336] scsi host4: usb-storage 1-1:1.2
[3660.332957] input: GsD OrangeCrab as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb1/1-1/1-1:1.3/0003:1209:5BF0.008D/input/input186
[3660.393971] hid-generic 0003:1209:5BF0.008D: input,hidraw5: USB HID v1.11 Keyboard [GsD OrangeCrab] on usb-0000:00:14.0-1/input3
[3661.337027] scsi host4: scsi scan: INQUIRY result too short (5), using 36
[3661.337041] scsi 4:0:0:0: Direct-Access     GsD      OrangeCrab       1.0  PQ: 0 ANSI: 2
[3661.338035] sd 4:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg2 type 0
[3661.345245] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] 16385 512-byte logical blocks: (8.39 MB/8.00 MiB)
[3661.349456] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Write Protect is off
[3661.349470] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Mode Sense: 03 00 00 00
[3661.353458] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] No Caching mode page found
[3661.353471] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Assuming drive cache: write through
[3661.418044]  sdc: sdc1
[3661.444235] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Attached SCSI removable disk
```

Connecting to the ttyACM0 device you should see the following
```console
$ screen /dev/ttyACM0
Auto-reload is on. Simply save files over USB to run them or enter REPL to disable.

Press any key to enter the REPL. Use CTRL-D to reload.
Adafruit CircuitPython 5.2.0-24-gc88db8a4e-dirty on 2020-07-11; OrangeCrab with VexRiscv
>>> 
```
